>> Steve Kinney: Let's say, what do we
normally, depending on your operating
system, open file is usually
either Command O or Control O.
Right now it's nothing.
Now we got some for free before, but
what happens if we want to actually
define a shortcut for a menu item?
Turns out we can do that as well,
>> Steve Kinney: We can
give it an accelerator.
In this case, we can do,
it's just basically a string that
says what you want the hotkey to be.
Now, well, on MacOS,
I want Command O on our Windows and
Linus, I want Control O.
So what I'll do is I'll make a turnery.
Let me just do Command or Control O,
right, and I'll take care of that for you.
The comma here.
>> Steve Kinney: Now you can see it
has the accelerator attached to it.
So I can actually start hitting Command O,
Open File,
Open File, Open File, Open File,
Open File, Open File, right?
Be better if I did something with it.
So let's go ahead and
just change change this to,
>> Steve Kinney: The same
thing that we did when we actually
hit the Open File button.
>> Steve Kinney: Okay, Command O.
I get the native file dialog, and
go ahead, I can open that file, right?
>> Steve Kinney: In the way that
we structure a application,
opening a file is pretty much totally
owned by the main process, right?
We go ahead.
We open a file.
It sends it off.
Saving a file.
It's a little trickier because where do
we store the file name and the content?
>> Speaker 2: The renderer.
>> Steve Kinney: The renderer, right?
So we are going to need to figure out
how to tell the renderer process.
Hey, you, we need you to go ahead and
send us the information we need to
go ahead and save the file, right.
So, this is going to be a little bit
trickier, not necessarily because saving
is trickier than opening, just generally
in the way that we structure application.
You're like well,
dummy why don't we go ahead and
just store it in the main process?
That would work except if we
had multiple windows open.
It's a little tricky.
It's better to talk to one window because
there is a method on browser window called
get focused window where you can get
the most recently opened window and
stuff along those lines which
is the front most window.
You can communicate by like
letting the communication back and
forth and this is kind of like why we set
up that pattern a little bit earlier.
Cuz we knew we'd have to
like figure out how to talk.
It's we're going to tell the main window
hey, the user wants to save the file.
Can you send me back the file name,
and the content so I can go ahead and
do that for the user?
That's only gonna involve a tiny
refactoring on the renderer process,
which is if we go to
this saveMarkdown button.
This is an anonymous function
that's part of the event listener.
Which means I can't really
call it separately.
Well, that's easily solved.
>> Steve Kinney: A little
bit of this action, cut.
>> Steve Kinney: Paste.
>> Steve Kinney: I will say saveMarkdown
whenever they click that button.
And then also, we can set up a listener,
which is like ipcRenderer
dot,
>> Steve Kinney: If
you get something on
the save-markdown channel,
what I would really like you to do is
also call that saveMarkdown function.
So now we'll take the same function,
if I hit the button in the UI,
we will save the markdown.
And if we receive a message from
any other process saying, hey,
we need you to save the markdown,
it will go ahead and
communicate back to the main
process to do that.
So now we can go ahead in here.
We'll make,
>> Steve Kinney: You'll
want to call it Save File.
>> Steve Kinney: I will send a message
over that channel to tell the main
window hey.
Go ahead and save the markdown.
So we'll send a message to
the renderer process saying,
hey I need you to save the markdown.
Renderer process gets it,
like cool, I know about the file,
I know about the content.
I will send that back to you so
you can go ahead save it, right?
So we're basically again,
iterating on that communication
between the two processes.
Let's go ahead and verify that this works.
>> Steve Kinney: Awesome.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we can save it with Command S.
I can change the content in here.
>> Steve Kinney: Can save it, you can
see it went back to a non-edited state.
We go ahead and we find our brand new one.
I've been very good with file names.
There it is.
Content is changed.
Right so now we have keyboard shortcuts
that are available within our application
for opening and saving files.